Instead of being a primarily historically focused game, we can try to balance ranged and melee combat and incorporate more fantastical elements into gameplay. We can focus on balancing melee and ranged combat to make both important and viable. I think ground combat should feel like something between titan combat and battlefront 2, and dragon combat should feel like a good flying game.

Melee combat
Weapons have a primary attack that does a little bit of damage to both health and armor and a secondary attack (power lunge, pommel smash, spin) depending on the type of weapn that is more powerful (does more damage, bypasses blocks, attacks multiple enemies). While players are blocking, their look sensitivity and movement speed is reduced, making them vulnerable to flank attacks. If a player attacks a blocking player in the front, they become temporarilty stunned, making them vulnerable to counterattacks. Melee attacks are quick (to prevent manual faking and to focus on movement and timing), but missing with an attack or hitting an opponent's block leaves a player temporarily stunned

Ranged combat
Ranged weapons need to have limitations to make melee combat a viable part of the game. Different weapons will have extreme bullet drop, poor accuracy, or slow projectiles. Tey will also have weapon condition. The weapon will reload its one shot quickly if its condition is good, but as the weapon fires the condtition level goes down and once it reaches 0 the reload is much slower. Players can repair their weapon at any time, but this is slow and they can't move while they do this. Players have unlimited ammo.


Movement
Pilots don’t move quickly, they’re covered in armor. Depending on their body type they get between 1 and 3 dashes to help them dodge enemies or close distances. They have, however, been imbued with magical powers that let them jump extremely high. Tapping the jump button makes the pilot do a tiny bunny hop. Holding it makes the pilot assume a squat and the longer the squat is held, the higher the pilot will jump, letting him jump over small buildings or to attack low-flying dragons, but makes him vulnerable while he charges that up.

Health System
Pilots have both armor and health. Armor takes permanent damage, and health regenerates. Attacks that hit the head are 50% absorbed by armor if there is any, attacks to the body are 75% absorbed by armor, and attacks to the limbs are 100% absorbed by armor. This means that there are tactical advantages and disadvantages for aiming for the head, since one can get a quick kill that way but won't do as much permanent armor damage. 
If health runs out from a melee or dragon attack, the pilot immediately dies. If the pilot runs out of health from a ranged attack,the pilot is mortally wounded. Mortally wounded pilots have a small amount of health that drains until they die and can only use their dagger. Who or whatever mortally wounds a pilot is credited with the kill. Mortally wounded pilots can be instantly killed with a finishing move (dagger attack), which repairs the armor of whoever does the attack.
AI enemies do not get mortally wounded, and just immediately die when they run out of health. Some attacks, such as dragon fire, bypass pilot armor completely.

Dragon health
Dragons do not have armor- only health. Dragon health slowly regenerates on its own, but regenerates much faster when the dragon has a full belly. Players can fill their dragons' bellies by eating pilots and small AIs (not dragons or minotaurs). Belly fullness will last for a moderate amound of time, then drain back to 0, at which point the dragon regenerates health at the usual rate.

Minimap
Dragons provide minimap vision. If a friendly dragon is flying over or circling over an area, then you and all of your allies can see every AI and enemy player in a small area around that dragon. Game mode objectives like command posts, flags, and showdown rivals always appear on the minimap.

Dragonfall
Every player has a fixed amount of time before they unlock a dragon. When a player completes actions towards the objective or gets kills, they reduce the amount of time on the timer. Once the timer expires, the player's dragon will fly into the map and circle above the max height, out of reach of other dragons and providing a circle of minimap vision. When the player presses the drop button, the dragon lands at or near where the player is aiming their reticle, killing whatever enemies it lands on and then becoming available to ride. Only the player that drops the dragon can ride it, and enemies that get near it will get attacked. Dragons are vulnerable on the ground like this, but can be ordered to follow the pilot (and attack what they attack) or stay put. If the dragon is far away and ordered to follow, it will fly over to the pilot.

Boost Cards
One life per match, players can activate a boost card. This boost will either be a buff that lasts the rest of the life (one extra dash, killing peasants reduces dragon time, poleaxe replaces melee weapon, wizard staff replaces ranged weapon, etc) or an expendable ability (drop a minotaur or ballista, call in a barrage, smoke bomb). Boost cards can only be used once per match, but players can use the same boost in as many matches as they would like. Players have to equip 3 boosts before the match, and they equip to the profile, not to individual loadouts. Boost cards are not available in certain game modes, as they would break wingman and cornucopia.

Loadouts
Every pilot has:
One of 9 melee weapons
One of 9 ranged weapons
A preference (whether they spawn with the ranged or melee weapon held, or randomly switch)
One of 3 anti-dragon weapon
One of 3 body types (trading armor for dashes- titanfall titan combat style)
One of 4 defensive abilites
One of 5 passive perks
29160 possible loadouts

Every dragon has:
Two of 12 fires (ranged)
One of 3 melee attacks (think knife in CoD)
One of 5 body types
One of 4 perks
3960 possible loadouts


Melee weapons:
2-handed: estoc, greatsword, messer
1-handed: falchion, sidesword, mace
halfsword: longsword, boar sword, piercer/"zwongsowrd"
special: poleaxe, dagger

Standard attacks
Slash- a daigonal slash attack that covers a sweeping area. Greatsword, messer, falchion, mace, poleaxe
Thrust- a straightforward thrust attack that attacks a pinpoint. Estoc, sidesword, longsword, boar sword, piercer, dagger

Special attacks
Two handed weapons: Power slash. Hold to charge up, during which time the player can't move but can aim. When the attack is fully charged, release to lunge at the enemy and do massive damage.
Halfsword weapons: Pommel smash. A slower than normal attack that involves quickly flipping over the right hand and swinging the sword down vertically that bypasses blocks.
One handed weapons: Spin. The player spins, doing less than normal damage, but doing it to every enemy in range in a circular area.

Ranged weapons: (think sea of thieves type reload or CoD crossbow reload to balance out melee)
Weapon-special feature
standard crossbow- quick switch to melee weapon
repeating crossbow-multi bolt reload
heatseeker- slight heatseeking effect
durable crossbow- fires way more shots before needing repair
belly bow- charge down to fire harder shot
scoped gun/bow- has a scope
? -no bullet drop
hook gun- suppression effect
rocket gun- starts fires
magician staff- only available from bonus card

Anti Dragon Weapons
ice dragon (locks onto enemy dragons, then fires an ice ball that tracks down dragons and explodes in a big ball of ice flak. If dumb fired, the ice flak ball arcs heavily)
laser dragon (pilot holds a dragon that charges up a laser shot like the charge rifle)
anti-dragon pike (pilot crushes a gem that turns into a huge 18’ pike for meleeing dragons)

Defensive abilities
Invisibility Cloak (turn invisible to dragons and far away enemies for a short time but can't attack or visibility returns)
Magic Shield (fire-based attacks won't do any damage, but the shield is a big, highly visible sphere and other attacks still do damage)
Kite Shield (plant in place and pull out a big shield that blocks fire where you are pointing it. Like melee weapon block, but much slower. Also effective against regular ranged attacks if pointed the right way, but look sensitivity is slowed too making it much easier to shoot them in the back)
Holy Water Sprinkler (throw a grenade that if it hits temporarily blinds dragons)

Pilot Perks
Crouching Noble, Hidden from Dragon (when crouched and not firing a weapon, do not appear on minimap)
Running Repair (can repair ranged weapon while moving at crouch speed)
Quick draw (switch between weapons more quickly)
Come Hither towardst I, Sir Brother (hitting opponents with your weapons marks them on your map for a short time)
Big Hoister (knife attack pushes enemies further away than normal)

Pilot body types
Light (stryder)
Medium (atlas)
Heavy (ogre)

Pilot aesthetics
Helmet
Dagger
Banner
Title

Boosts:
Minotaur (auto titan, fights ground enemies)
Ballista (static anti-dragon turret)
Mage staff (super ranged weapon)- maybe should replace melee weapon too?
Poleaxe (super melee weapon)- maybe should replace ranged weapon too?
Trebuchet strike (airstrike)
Extra dash (adds one dash to current pilot body)
Quick regen (health regenerates faster)
Peasant Hunter (killing peasants reduces dragon time faster)
Warfighter (killing bots reduces the dragon time faster)
Smoke bomb (defensive ability is replaced by a smoke bomb that teleports you to a safe place one time)
Rematch (respawn where you died instead of at a command post)
Neutral (enemy AIs won't attack you until you attack one of them, does not apply to knights)
Well fed dragon (dragon has permanently full belly)

Dragon fires:
	4x Air to Air
Multi-lock (attacks multiple enemies quickly but for little damage), single-lock (smart pistol), semi-active (have to keep looking to stay locked on, lots of damage), long range (locks at long range, but won’t lock at close range and doesn’t track well)
	4x Manual
Charge shot (the longer it’s charged, the faster it goes), standard (semi-auto), spray (short range wide angle continuous fire), rockets (lots of little fires super fast at once)
	4x Air to ground
Ground lock (locks onto ground enemies), bomb (lobs and then explodes), fog and spark (first drop cloud of green gas, then a spark to blow up the whole area), bouncer (launches 3 small fireballs that bounce around and then explode in small explosions)

Dragon melees:
Bite (standard knife)
Gator roll (grab and hold, then flying around can do more damage)
Headbutt (less damage, but more range)

Dragon abilities:
Flares (dragon shoots tiny fires behind itself to distract lock-ons), Ophidian
Wrath (temporary damage boost for all attacks), Feilong
Team heal (sprays green fire that heals whatever teammates or enemies it hits), Drake
Harden (temporary immunity to ground attacks), Wyvern
Afterburner (speed burst), Tarragon

Dragon Perks:
Health regen (dragon very slowly regenerates health)
Hard belly (slightly reduced damage from ground attacks)
High flyer (increased max altitude)
Big lunge  (increased melee range)

Dragon body types
Drake (standard dragon)
Feilong (Asian style dragon. High agility, low health, quick acceleration)
Tarragon (Tank. Sluggish acceleration and turning, fast maximum speed, lots of health)
Wyvern (Ground attack. Can brake all the way to a hover)
Ophidian (Air to air. Invisible on radar)

Dragon aesthetics
Saddle
Head (unique to each body type)
 
Gameplay

Friendly fire- teammates block your shots but do not take damage

Game types:
story (bf2 story style, several bot matches)
instant action (bot matches)
private match
public match
Game modes: 
Siege- Teams can capture the enemy flag and instantly win the game as long as they control one of the 3 command posts. Controlling more command posts also speeds up a team's dragon timers. If no one captures the flag, the game ends when one team reaches 300 attrition points (earned for killing enemy players and AIs), or if time expires, at which point the team with more attrition points wins. Attrition from Titanfall, Conquest from SWBF2, and capture the flag. 
Showdown- Every player on a team is matched up with an opposing player who is their "rival". Rivals appear on each others' minimaps, and can only do damage to each other until one of them dies. The mode is round-based, with no respawning. The team with more players (or any players) alive at the end of the round wins it. If a player uses their dragon, it doesn't roll over to the next round. Marked for death from Titanfall, Competitive from CSGO
Cornucopia- players get a polexe and their regular ranged weapon, and play in a small arena. The goal of the game is to carry the cornucopia into the opposing goal more times than the opponent. Grifball from Halo.
Hunt- free for all. Players only get points for killing peasants. More peasants than normal spawn into the map. Hunt from SWBF2, free for all.
Wingman- 2v2 round based dragons vs dragons. Round-based, no respawning, last dragon standing wins the round. Wingman LTS from Titanfall, Deathmatch from Ace Combat

Respawning: Players will almost always spawn at command posts or at their base. In seige mode, this means that players may only be able to spawn at their base their team does not control any command posts (can't respawn at neutral or enemy controlled ones). In other modes, command posts can't be captured and this is not an issue, or there isn't even respawning. The only way to respawn anywhere other than a command post is to use the rematch boost card.

Match start: in seige, players ride into the battle on their dragons and can unlock them again. In showdown, players start without dragons and can unlock them but they don't carry over round to round. In Wingman, players start with dragons but they can't respawn. In Cornucopia, there are no dragons at all.

Destructibility: Wood can be destroyed, stone cannot. Destroyed objects just get deleted when their health reaches 0, they don’t have progressive wear or anything. What this means is that dragons can destroy the roofs of houses to root out pesky enemies, pilots can cross bridges and then destroy them to keep from being followed, but that we can plan beforehand what people will destroy and build maps around that.

Teams
There will always be a chrome team and a black team (we need names for these) based on the color of their armor. Whichever team the player is, their teammates will have blue accents and their enemies will have red ones- things like plumes, capes, etc. Minions will wear friendly colored clothes as well. I think 4v4 is a good team size, compromising the number of people in a team and the required playerbase.

Minions
The only mode that wouldn’t have minions would be cornucopia.  In every other mode, archers (spectors), peasants (grunts), Men at Arms (bots who call in minotaurs instead of dragons) ballistas (anti-dragon), minotaurs (anti-pilot), and fat dragons (troop carriers). 
Production plan

Source code search- FPS, flying game, vehicle + nonvehicle
1st person movement- controls, camera, dashing, jumping (COMPLETE)
Ranged combat and armor with basic crossbow
Melee combat and armor with basic sword
Pilot classes and all the weapons
Mounting and unmounting dragons
Dragon flight with basic dragon
Dragon vs ground combat
Dragon vs dragon combat
Dragon classes and all the stuff
Loadouts and UI
Custom aesthetics
Matchmaking-casual
Matchmaking-competitive
Matchmaking-private
Minion AI
Minion balancing
Bot AI
Bot balancing
Offline play
Bonuses (killstreaks)
Dragon countdown and dragonfall
Auto-dragon AI and command
3D models
Animations
Map designs
Game modes
Balance
Monetization


Map Concepts
Standard Maps (for standard modes, designed to limit pilots to a small area but give dragons lots of room to fly)
Harbor: A semicircular map with water on one side and a mountain range on the other restricting pilot movement. Teams start on opposite sides of the map, separated by a mountain. Players can go around the mountain, fighting through a city with lots of verticality and open sightlines, or through tunnels through the mountain which are full of choke points and tight spaces. Pilots can't go in the water, but dragons can fly over it, drastically expanding the size of the map for air combat.
Ravine: Two flat areas are separated by a huge gorge and sit between two giant mountain ranges. On one side sits a castle, which provides a safe place to snipe as long as no one jumps over the walls to flank you. Surrounding the castle is forest, which allows players to constantly have cover and hopefully lead to fast paced combat as players dash from tree to tree chasing their enemies down. Across the gorge sits a town, with lots of buildings to hide near to try and snipe the people in the castle. To get between the town and the castle, there is a main bridge, which acts as an open area, 2 smaller destructible bridges, and a hidden mountain pass. Even though the map is sqeezed between two giant mountain ranges, there is still room for dragons to turn as the map gets wider towards the mountains' peaks. Dragons can fly in the wide area around the players, or can fly down the length of the valley. Skilled pilots will fly below the bridges and inside the ravine itself, but less experienced ones will crash trying to do so.
Bazaar: On the coast of a giant, sandy desert sits a Y-shaped town. Inside the town, there are buildings and market stalls to create cover and verticality, but players need to be careful not to be sniped by players in other parts of town, since wide open areas betweeh the Y-arms make for easy sightlines to hit careless players. To get to a different part of town, players can brave those open areas, hoping to be fast or sneaky enough to not get hit before going to cover. Alternatively, they can go through the choke point in the middle of the city and fight their way there. With the desert extending in one direction and water on the other, dragons have no obstructions to their flying at all on this map.
Spire: In an extremely wide open and vertical map, players fight one another on a huge ramp that spirals around the outside of a massive tower. Since they are vulnerable to dragons on the ramp, they can duck into a door to go inside the tower, where there are multiple levels of balconies that can be leaped between by skilled players. At the top of the tower is a fortress, which is where most of the close sutained would occur since there is little cover anywhere else on the map.

Small maps (designed for cornucopia specifically but we could put any pilot only modes in them)
Fortress: In a circular arena, players either need to jump over walls or squeeze around them to get across the map. The goals/flags/command posts sit atop circular turrets which themselves are surrounded by another layer of walls. The idea is to force players to choose to jump over walls into an area they can't see, sit on top of walls without any cover, or take a long route along the outer edge of the map to get across.
Elysium: A rectangular field with only a few pieces of cover. Designed to force players to move quickly or die.
No-man's land: An hourglass-shaped arena with tons of cover at either end and a wide open no-man's land in the middle with small cover like Elysium. Designed to make teams need to attack together or risk getting shut down by a well-protected enemy team.
Hexagon: A hexagon-shaped arena modeled after the standard MOBA 3-lane map. The middle lane is the widest and shortest, meaning that a match focused here will end quickly, but to either side sits a relatively safe "jungle" which should mimic the gameplay in the forest area of the ravine map. Beyond the jungle are the two outside lanes, which are narrower. The outside lanes have a moderate amount of cover to protect against attacks from the same lane, but are completely safe from attacks from the middle lane unless they jump on top of the cover. The idea in this map is to let players use tactics they're already familiar with in a scenario that is relatively new to them.
 
Monetization plan

Preferred
Sell specific aesthetics (dragon heads, banners, daggers, titles)
Sell item pass to unlock new aesthetics with progression (like rocket league but permanent instead of seasonal)

Other
Sell competitive access (players have to pay $10 to be able to play competitive or something similar)
Advertise in menu screens
Players pay a subscription (a dollar every 3 months or something small) to be able to play online
Charge for the game
